## BSON
MongoDB stores data using BSON, which supports additional data types that aren't available in JSON. The mongosh shell has better data type support for drivers than the legacy mongo shell.


**Date**
mongosh provides various methods to return the date, either as a string or as a Date object:

- Date() method which returns the current date as a string.
- new Date() constructor which returns a Date object using the ISODate() wrapper.
- ISODate() constructor which returns a Date object using the ISODate() wrapper.

**ObjectId**
mongosh provides the ObjectId() wrapper class around the ObjectId data type. To generate a new ObjectId, use the following operation in mongosh:

**Double**
The Double() constructor can be used to explicitly specify a double:

**Int32**
The Int32() constructor can be used to explicitly specify 32-bit integers.

**Long**
The Long() constructor can be used to explicitly specify a 64-bit integer.

**Decimal128**
Decimal128() values are 128-bit decimal-based floating-point numbers that emulate decimal rounding with exact precision.
This functionality is intended for applications that handle monetary data, such as financial, tax, and scientific computations.

**Timestamp**
MongoDB uses a BSON Timestamp internally in the oplog. The Timestamp type works similarly to the Java Timestamp type. Use the Date type for operations involving dates.

A Timestamp signature has two optional parameters.
```js
Timestamp( { "t": <integer>, "i": <integer> } )
//integer: Optional. Used for ordering when there are multiple operations within a given second. i has no effect if used without t.

```
⚠️ Warning
Default Int32 and Double types may be stored inconsistently if you connect to the same collection using both mongosh and the legacy mongo shell.

```js 
//Query
db.data.insertOne({
    date: new Date(),
    timestamp: new Timestamp(), //⚠️Timestamp not TimeStamp
    integer: Int32(1),
    doubleValue: Double(1),
    longValue: Long(1),
    decimal:  Decimal128("1")
})

db.data.find()
//Output
[
  {
    _id: ObjectId('6786096441c385755ccb0ce2'),
    date: ISODate('2025-01-14T06:51:16.118Z'),
    timestamp: Timestamp({ t: 1736837476, i: 11 }),
    integer: 1,
    doubleValue: 1,
    longValue: Long('1'),
    decimal: Decimal128('1')
  }
]
```
**Types**
```js
{ _id: 1, value: 1, expectedType: 'Int32' },
{ _id: 2, value: Long("1"), expectedType: 'Long' },
{ _id: 3, value: 1.01, expectedType: 'Double' },
{ _id: 4, value: Decimal128("1.01"), expectedType: 'Decimal128' },
{ _id: 5, value: 3200000001, expectedType: 'Double' }
```
**Array**
**Boolean**
**Object**
**Code**