## IAM(Identify and Access Management)
- It is global service: Aapne jo user bnaya vo har region m milega.

**Services**
Services>IAM>
- 1. Users
- 2. User Groups
- 3. Roles
- 4. Policies
- 5. Identify providers

**1.Users**
User>Add User>
`STEP1`: User details
1. Enter name
2. Checkbox(default not selected) whether you want to provide access to the AWS management console.
`STEP2`: Set Permissions
- 3 options
1. Add User to Group
2. Copy Permissions
3. Attach Policies directly
4. Create user without permission.

Now user is created let's say with name:Ash-first-iam-user
**This created user has**
- ARN: arn:aws:iam::586794474218:user/ash-first-iam-user
5 tabs:
1. Permissions: Currently no permission
2. Groups: no
3. Tags: No key value present default
4. Security Credentials:
    - `it has console sign in link: https://586794474218.signin.aws.amazon.com/console`
    - MFA
    - Access keys: for programmatic access
    - SSH public keys for AWS CodeCommit (0) ðŸ“(Could be relatable to current project)
    - HTTPS Git credentials for AWS CodeCommit (0) ðŸ“(Could be relatable to current project)
    - Credentials for Amazon Keyspaces (for Apache Cassandra) (0)
    - X.509 Signing certificates (0)
5. Last Accessed


**Scenario**:
I want to create user so that they can login in aws
1. You have to enable console for it.
2. Password: As root user either you can create it 
or you create the fist password, user need to change password when logged in first time
but this will add  (`IAMUserChangePassword`) policy directly.


**User Groups**
- The problem in creating only user is like for testers we don't want to give Create access
so I want to assign bunch of specific permission to User so here User groups are helpful
EX: - s3: readPermission, ec3: readPermission to groups tester
- s3: fullAccess, ec3: fullAccess to groups developers

1. Create group name admin.
2. Create another group name developer who can access EC2.
3. create two users
- test-admin: With group admin: It will inherit all the access of admin
- test-admin-dev: 

Password Leak Use case:
1. Attacker can create big instance and use for data mining which can increase AWS cost.
2. Weak password can be get by brut force.


**Password Policy**
Iam>Account Settings>Edit Password policy.
- Here we can add password expiration time, security rules like minimum length
- Here we can MFA.

**How to Access AWS via CLI**
- IAM>Users>ash-users>Security Credentials tab> Access Key> Created and can be save in csv

**How to install aws cli**?
- What is AWS CLI?
You can create multiple resource via commands.

- Search on Google. install it based on OS.
- linux: curl command 
- unzip
- sudo ./aws/install

- command

```cmd
aws configure //it will ask for aws access key and security key and region

aws help>>>>
aws ec2 help

```

**How to access multiple account with different regions**
- you can create profiles
```
aws configure --profile ash-user-us-east-1
//Give the access key, password, region
aws configure --profile ash-user-ap-south-1
//Give the access key, password, region

// Suppose I want run ec2 instance but with different(default) account?
aws ec2 describe-instance --profile=account1
```

**How to set default profile**
```CMD
AWS_DEFAULT_PROFILE=ash-user-us-east-1
```