## Lambda Function
Serverless computing
Lambda is an event driven service, meaning that it runs on your code in response to certain triggers or events.


1. First 400k GB-sec/month -Free
2. First 1million request /month -Free

**Configure**
**Create**
- Three ways
From Scratch, from blueprint, from container image.

**Information**
1. name.
2. Run time environment.

**Events**:
- S3 (file uploads) 
- Dynamo DB(database changes): User sign up
- Api gateway (http requests):  
- Cloudwatch(scheduled events) etc

**Limitations**
1. Execution Time Limit: can only run for a maximum of 15 minutes.
2. Stateless
3. Cold Start Delay: If a lambda function has not run in while there's sometimes a slight delay called cold start.

**When to use Lambda**
1. `Image Processing`: Users upload images to your app. You can set up lambda to automatically resize, compress, or event apply filters to each image as it's uploaded.
2. `Data Transformation`: If you need to clean up or process data storing in a database, a lambda function that transformation automatically.
3. `Real Time Notifications`: Like new user sign up to trigger email, sms or other notifications. 

**Feature**
`Automatic Scaling`
- Scales the execution of functions response in the number of incoming requests.
- if 1000's requests come in at the same time, AWS lambda will handle them in parallel, making it highly scalable without any configuration.

**Cost**
- Lambda uses pay as you pay pricing model. you are billed based on the number of function executions and te duration of each function
runtime(measured in milliseconds).
- Cost on basis of compute time, there's no charge for idle time.